Simulation work is reported indicating that packet reservation multiple access (PRMA) 
allows a variety of information sources to share the same wireless access channel.
Some of the sources, such as speech terminals, are classified as periodic and others, 
such as signaling, are classified as random. Packets from all sources contend for access 
to channel time slots. When a periodic information terminal succeeds in gaining access, 
it reserves subsequent time slots for uncontested transmission.



Packet reservation multiple access (PRMA) is portrayed as a multimedia packet multiplexer 
conveying speech, data and video signals, which ensures that the slot occupancy of 
conventional time division multiple access (TDMA) links is approximately doubled. 
In addition to 20 speech users the 20 slot 720kbit/s scheme presented supported 20 data 
users and up to seven video users, while maintaining a slot occupancy in excess of 80%.



Packet Reservation Multiple Access

Packet Reservation Multiple Access (PRMA) has been developed by D. Goodman et al. at 
Winlab at Rutgers University. It applies Time Assigned Speech Interpolation (TASI) as 
multiple access method in wireless networks, while previously TASI was almost exclusively 
used for multiplexing on satellite links.

PRMA is a multiple access scheme with frames of a fixed number of slots. If a terminal has 
a series of data packets (or speech segments) to transmit, it competes for access in any 
free slot. If it successfully captures the base station, the terminal gains reservation in 
the corresponding slots of the next frames, until it releases the reservation.

In PRMA, adjacent cells use different carrier frequencies according to a cellular reuse plan.

PRMA facts

TDMA with slotted ALOHA reservation scheme
Frame Duration 16 msec (62.5 frames/sec)
Source rates 32 kbit/sec.
Channel bit rate 720 kbit/sec; Bandwidth 720 khz.
20 slots per frame
Wireless version of satelite telephony technology:
DSI (Digital Speech Interpolation) or TASI (Time Assigned Speech Interpolation)
One carrier supports 26 - 39 simultaneous calls with a packet dropping rate » 1%
576 bits/slot (includes 64 bit overhead)
Voice and Data